Clearly not all northern mockingbirds are equal in their ability (or willingness) to mimic; this bird is a marvel, his immediate neighbor not so much. 

I hear clear mimicry (a few examples listed here):

Western kingbird (same call at 0:07 and 6:48)

Magpie (same call at 0:13 and 7:07)

House sparrow (same call at 2:19, 8:47)

Red-bellied woodpecker (same  _kwirr_ call at 5:25, 9:30)

Northern cardinals (1:49, 3:35, 7:02, 8:39)

American robin (0:37)

Bell's vireo (0:45)

Great crested flycatcher (4:53)

Killdeer (7:05). 

Is that a northern flicker _wik-wik-wik_ song at 2:56? 
Maybe not quite.

The _WHITE!_ of the _BOB-WHITE!_ call of the northern bobwhite at 5:37-5:42? I think so.

Someone who really knows western birds will hear a lot more mimicry here than I do.

And how this mockingbird loves rock wrens! Mockingbirds from Missouri east seem to love Carolina wrens, because each wren has so many different songs and their style of repetition within a song fits well with the natural tendencies of the mockingbird. It’s the same with the rock wren, given how this wren also repeats a particular phrase several times in each song. So I listen to the seven song bursts from 0:18 to 0:35 and I hear a rock wren running through some of his hundred or so different songs; much of the section from 4:01 to 4:52 also sounds like rock wren to me, and 7:10 to 7:26, and 9:02 to 9:24, as well as isolated songs here and there (e.g., at 1:01, 6:01).
 
Yes, this northern mockingbird is a marvel, which leads me to wonder why his neighbor sings such a different tune with so little mimicry. Perhaps there’s an age difference, with the older bird doing more mimicry? I’d love to know.
#####Background
Great horned owl, American robin, common nighthawk, Canada goose, wild turkey
