OK, I got a little carried away here, but it is my nature. I needed to understand how this Hammond’s flycatcher used his songs during the dawn chorus. So I studied.

You are welcome to skip all of this, but I know there are a few people out there like me who _just need to know!_

Here’s a description of the songs, mostly from the Birds of North America:

1) dry, sharp, 2-syllabled _SE-pit_ delivered briskly (reminiscent of _cheBEK_ of least flycatcher, but with accent on first syllable)

2) low-pitched, burry _tsurrt_, that ends with tiny, high tonal note

3) _SE-luurt_. A rougher version of _SE-pit_, more drawn out, also 2-syllabled, but ending with low, burry _luurt_
This Hammond's flycatcher is in dawn song, competing with another male in the background. I hear his three expected songs, this sequence beginning with _SE-pit, tsurrt, SE-lurrt, SE-pit, tsurrt, SE-pit, SE-lurrt, tsurrt, SE-pit_, all during the first ten seconds.
 
It’s difficult to see a pattern when the mnemonics are used, so let me substitute A, B, C for _SE-pit, tsurrt_, and _SE-lurrt_ and then see what the sequence looks like for the first minute: A B C A B A C B A B A C A B A B A C A B A C A B A C A A B A B A C A B C B A A B C A A B C A B A B A C.
 
Then I prepare a contingency table, showing which songs follow which. What is most clear is that he never sings the same song back-to-back. The A-B and B-A sequences are most common, such 14 and 12 times, respectively, indicating that his favored sequences are between the two songs _SE-pit_ and _tsurrt_. The _SE-pit _ (A) songs are most common, the _SE-lurrt_ (C) least common.
 
SONG	A	B	C

A	0	14	7

B	12	0	4

C	8	2	0

Sums	20	16	11

I’d need to study this same bird on another morning, or other birds as well, to see how performances differed before I’d be completely satisfied. But this is a good start to understanding the Hammond’s. 
#####Background
Another Hammond's flycatcher, western tanager, white-breasted nuthatch, sapsucker drums, chipping sparrow, mountain chickadee, wind.
