A Say's phoebe at dawn. Very nice—wonderful songs. I first heard a Say's phoebe riding under the early morning streetlights through Pueblo, Colorado; I listened carefully to the daytime songs in Hell’s Canyon; and now I come to a surprise that I hadn’t expected in the dawn songs of this particular Say's phoebe. 

This male has the same two songs that I heard during the day in Hell’s Canyon: what I called the _pit-TSEEeeuur_ song (say, A), distinctively down-slurred and instantly recognizable; and the raspy, rising _prrrREEP_ (call it B). But this male has a third song (C; _pit-urr-EE-EEP_); it also rises, but is tonal, not raspy. It’s the fifth and twelfth song in this series, for example.

The first five songs in this recording are as follows:_ pit-TSEEeeuur, pit-TSEEeeuur, prrrREEP, pit-TSEEeeuur, pit-urr-EE-EEP_.

Using letters to identify the songs, I lay out this male’s song performance, in 30-second segments, with a song nearly every second:

A A B A C A B A A B A C A B A A B A C A B A C A A B

A A B A C A B A A B A A B A C A B A C A B A A B A C

A A B A A B A C A B A A B A C A B A C A B A A A B A 

C A B A A B A C A B A A B A C A B A A A B A C A B

A A A B A C A B A A B A C A B A A B A C A A B A A

B A A B A C A B . . .

His most common song is the _pit-TSEEeeuur_ (80 occurrences), followed by the _prrrREEP_ (37) and the _pit-urr-EE-EEP_ (19). His _pit-TSEEeeuur_ song (A) anchors the song performance, and whenever he sings either the B or C song, he always returns to A, with B and C never occurring together. 

I need to listen to more Say's phoebes. My sample of two feels insufficient, with the one daytime bird at Hell’s Canyon singing songs A and B, this dawn bird  in eastern Oregon singing A, B, and C. Do all Say's phoebes use song C only at dawn, much like the eastern wood-pewee reserves his _ah-di-dee_ song for dawn and dusk singing (but the eastern phoebe uses his same two songs both at dawn and during the day). Because flycatchers don’t learn their songs, all the individuals of one species will sing very much alike, so it’s my best guess that just a few birds can tell one a lot about the entire species. 
#####Background
A common nighthawk _peent_s and _VROOM_s; western kingbird in dawn song, barn swallows flying by.
