What a wonderful variety of sounds from these jays! 
A single blue jay starts it off during the first five seconds with four well-spaced _jay_ calls: _jay jay jay jay_, all of a particular duration and tonal quality. Within a second after he finishes, off to the right two to three other jays respond; from 0:08 to 0:14, hear how these jays are all using identical _jay_ calls. Sometimes the jays call alternately (e.g., 0:07, 0:13), sometimes more sloppily overlapping (0:09), sometimes almost perfectly synchronized (0:11). Such coordinated use of the same _jay_ calls doesn’t happen by chance: Given the seemingly infinite variety of calls these birds are capable of, it’s clear that they’re being very selective in what they are saying to each other here.

I love the sequence from 0:28 to 0:51. In just 23 seconds, the jays give a brief primer on the variety of sounds that they can make, beginning with a fine rendition of a squeaky gate and ending emphatically with a blue jay flying by in plain view, exclaiming something no doubt significant with five double jay calls: _jay-jay jay-jay jay-jay jay-jay jay-jay_. And then all is silent, except for a few more double jay calls as they fly into the distance.

And, to top it all off, a pair of yellow-billed cuckoos add a little duet at the end (1:28; use headphones to hear this best). A bird off to the right begins the song, _ca ca ca ca ca_ . . . and soon after a bird to the left chimes in, _ca ca ca ca ca_, the two of them now calling together. Only the bird to the right finishes the sequence, the four seconds of _ca ca ca ca ca ca_ ending with four seconds of _kowlp kowlp kowlp kowk_.

#####Background
Eastern wood-pewee, house finch, red-eyed vireo, great crested flycatcher, yellow-billed cuckoo, red-bellied woodpecker.
