####Illinois, May 27, Ferne Clyffe State Park. 

An hour and a quarter before sunrise, I'm perched at the cliff's edge, comfortable in my camp chair, listening, smiling, breathing deeply, as if a deep breath might capture in my chest all that I feel and see and hear ... purple martins are high overhead, a small cloud of older males drifting about up there, perhaps luring late-migrating yearlings to the colony ... _chuck-WILL'S-WID-ow_, just below, loud and clear, a more faint _WILL'S-WID_ heard from two others in the distance ... an indigo bunting bursts into song, as if unloading some nightmare, then is silent ... and a raucous outburst from a great crested flycatcher, then he too is silent ...

Just to my right awakes an Acadian flycatcher, a Mosquito Prince, an _Empidonax_: _seet, seet, seet, seet, seet PEET-sah! seet, seet, seet PEET-sah!_ So energized, he calls repeatedly between the songs that he'll use in a less frenzied state throughout the day. Two phoebes, left and right—the pace escalates, each rapidly alternating his two songs, _FEE-bee, FEE-b-bre-be, FEE-bee, FEE-b-bre-be_, each in typical phoebe cadence, hustling to the _FEE-b-bre-be_, taking a micro-second breather before offering the next _FEE-bee_, the songs and their delivery all dictated by phoebe genes.

_Pit-i-tuck_. A summer tanager awakes, soon singing from the small oak just downslope. Like the scarlet, his dawn singing is also disjointed, the song phrases delivered deliberately but continuously, without pit-i-tuck punctuations. 

As shadows give way to emerging colors in the landscape, the dawn singers yield to the day as well, and I listen to their changing voices, focusing on ... warblers, tanagers, buntings, flycatchers ... and nearly two hours after sunrise, I accept that the bicycle awaits, leaving my dawn perch for another day of listening on the road.
