####Kansas, June 3-7. 

At 5 A.M., we roll out of the motel room to a Chanute that lies eerily asleep, to a ghost town of quiet streetlights standing sentinel, their nighttime shift nearing an end. About an hour before sunrise, robins rule the planet and airborne purple martins chortle as second in command. We head due west, on West 21st Street.

Nighthawks, everywhere their nearly continuous peents rain down on us, every ten or so interrupted by the loud _VROOM_ of a dive display. _Whoooooleeeee, wheeelooooo-ooooo_—upland sandpipers, shorebirds without a shore; we ride on, entranced by these "Long Mellow Whistles," as ornithologists call them, every bit as memorable as the best cry of wolf or loon. 

It's the land of little oil, ancient pumps littering the landscape and squeezing but a few barrels out of the ground each day. And of dickcissels. And of armadillos, in desperate need of advice from chickens on how to cross a road.  And, surprisingly, of a few straggling eastern birds, with eastern phoebes at roadside bridges, eastern wood-pewees and great crested flycatchers in wooded stream bottoms.

At Harvey County East Park, dawn is a Tyrannus fest, where east and west meet south. Eastern kingbirds are first, four of them within earshot, each sputtering and stuttering sharply, _t't'tzeer, t't'tzeer, T'TZEETZEETZEE, t't'tzeer, t't'tzeer, t't'tzeer, T'TZEETZEETZEE_. From a small tree at the end of the campground I hear a _kip kip kip ki-PIP ki-PEEP-PEEP-PEEP-PEEP_—western kingbird. 

And from a small locust next to the pavilion sings a scissor-tailed flycatcher! From beneath the pavilion, ever so slowly, I lean out to peek up beyond the roof overhang, and _there he is_, just two yards up! He perches facing me on a leafless, horizontal branch, his white chest glowing in the early light, his magnificent tail pumping noticeably with the exertion on each note. His stutter is low-pitched like that of the western kingbird, though sharper, and through the climax he becomes increasingly animated, ending on the loudest and highest note of all, surging at the end instead of fading like the western kingbird: _pik pik pik pik pik pi-DIK PI-DIK PI-DAH PI-DAH-LEEK_. The singing genes inherited from their kingbird ancestor dictate that males of all three species stutter and sputter before delivering their emphatic climax. 

On the road, we magically float among the clouds, through patches of fog that hang over the fields and the road, the water-saturated air amplifying birdsong as if we ride through a great symphony hall. From small bushes beside the road rise the sharp, emphatic songs of Bell's vireos, accompanied by the _wich-i-ty wich-i-ty_ of yellowthroats everywhere. A brown thrasher sings from a tree top to the right, pure and smooth, _Kansas Kansas, so sweet so sweet, nice day nice day, ride on ride on, Oregon Oregon, the Pacific the Pacific_ ... 
