####Montana, June 28, Wisdom. 

"3:00 A.M. 6-28"—so declares the lighted watch face when I punch my alarm off. With sunrise well over two hours away, I'm out the motel door, ready for yet another small bite out of our cross-country listening journey. At whatever speed I choose this morning, stopping where I please to look and listen, I will play my way across the sagebrush from here to the forest 11 miles away, and then ascend to Chief Joseph Pass, 25 miles to the west. My son and riding companion will follow later, and we'll meet up at the Pass.

With no moon, the constellations burn intensely against the still-black sky, the Milky Way an intense path through the heavens. The northern lights dance upward from the horizon, engulfing even the Great Bear. I listen, to the sound of darkness swishing past my ears, to the idea of dawn's first light and birdsong sweeping toward me from the east, to my own voice whispered into the night, "What a spectacular time of day to ride!"

A lone western marsh wren sings lazily off to the right, buzzing and rattling and whistling and trilling his way on an otherwise silent stage through more than a hundred different songs. A startled phantom flushes beside the road, _kill-deer kill-deer kill-deer_; overhead a dozen snipe winnow in earnest, _wuwuwuwuwuwuwuwu_, with the wind gusts from each wingbeat in their power dive whistling through their stiffened outer tail feathers. Seemingly thousands of tinkling bells announce horned larks in dawn song ... coyotes chorus off to the right ...

Just past the Big Hole National Battlefield lies the forest, with flycatchers in full dawn mode. Western wood-pewees, each rapidly alternating his two songs, _tswee-tee-teet ... bzeeyeer ... tswee-tee-teet ... bzeeyeer ..._; dusky flycatchers, _pa-EET prrdurnt PIT-it_, each with three different songs; willow flycatchers, too, _FITZ-bew, FIZZ-bew, creet_ ... olive-sided flycatchers, just one song, _hip! THREE CHEERS!_  ... I listen to each singer in turn, following along, marveling at how expressive he is. 

And thrushes, what a gift to the ears this morning: Mountain bluebirds, robins, veeries, hermit and Swainson's thrushes, a varied thrush, and now a solitaire at the Pass. 
